WEB DEVELOPMENT refers to the creating building and maintaining of webites. It includes aspects such as web design, webpublishing, web programming and web application. WEB APPLICATION which work through the Internet.

INTERNET-interconnectivity among multiple computers.

INTRANET-Internal Privet network can be accesed in only an organization.


Extranet-Allows users outside the Intr Intranet to access to organisation.

Network -A network consists of two or more collection of Computers that are linked or connected together inorder to Share resources, exchange files or allow communications. which are connected through cables, telehone lines, radio waves, Signals(wireless) etc----
 
LAN
This is the most used network.
A LAN is a connection or connectivity between two or more computers (e any internet device) within a limited / Restricted area. generally say it might be a building or a home/college / office etc..
Contains switches, cables, routers, acess points etc -- Techonologies includes wifi and Ethernet

Advantage - Ease of cost

Speed fastness Can We Break down Connection into multiple connections (ULAN).

Disadvantages

Restricted Area of usage (Ro (Range). There is a central point in LAN, if fails to work everything
 
VLAN Virtual LAN

  VIANS are used to split a network traffic into two or more without using any external hardware devices. Traffic This uses her software technology to split the connection into two.

Example-Day to Day life

Suppose that in a house of two families a single LAN is used. We can use VLAN to split the traffic Separate into two and this acts as the two site. LAN Connections.
[10:13 pm, 15/05/2023] Krish Patel Tulisagari: MAN

It does the work of collection of LAND as a single Unit and accuracy of speed is precise and works over a large ea!

Multiple LANS Can be Operated Managed

Advantages

1) Resource Shaving 
2) Data Exchange
3) Internet Acess.
4) Video and Audio Streaming
5) Backup and Recovery 
6) Disaster Recovery.
7) Centralised Management

Disadvantages

Cost High
Security
Latency 
Bandwidth limitations

WAN WIDE AREA NETWORK.(100km range)

This type of network provides connectivity to MAN and LAN
A computer network that connects computer in a large area (Metropolitan Areas) Multiple buildings, multiple users.

This is most basic form of network. It is a Single user network who utilizes communication among his/her devices.

PERSONAL AREA NETWORK. PAN

Adv --High speed, less cost

Using--Bluetooth, Irda, zigbee etc-

Ex USB, Computer, Phone, Tablet etc.

PERSONAL AREA NETWORK  CAN>> LAN
Limited Area range

CAN CAMPUS AREA NETWORK
This is used in Campus / school utilites for Block
College.